= Automatic Redis Failover for Beetle

== Introduction

Redis is used as the persistence layer in the AMQP message deduplication
process. Because it is such a critical piece in our infrastructure, it is
essential that a failure of this service is as unlikely as possible. As our
AMQP workers are working in a highly distributed manner, all accessing the same
Redis server, a automatic failover to another Redis server has to be very
defensive and ensure that every worker in the system will switch to the new
server at the same time. If the new server would not get accepted from every
worker, a switch would not be possible. This ensures that even in the case of a
partitioned network it is impossible that two different workers use two
different Redis servers for message deduplication.

== Our goals

* opt-in, no need to use the redis-failover solution
* no single point of failure
* automatic switch in case of redis-master failure
* switch should not cause inconsistent data on the redis servers
* workers should be able to determine the current redis-master without asking
  another process (as long as the redis servers are working)

== How it works

To ensure consistency, a service (the Redis Configuration Server - RCS) is
constantly checking the availability and configuration of the currently
configured Redis master server. If this service detects that the Redis master
is no longer available, it tries to find an alternative server (one of the
slaves) which could be promoted to be the new Redis master.

On every worker server runs another daemon, the Redis Configuration Client
(RCC) which listens to messages sent by the RCS.

If the RCS finds another potential Redis Master, it sends out a message to see
if all known RCCs are still available (once again to eliminate the risk of a
partitioned network). If all RCCs have answered to that message, the RCS sends
out a message which tells the RCCs to invalidate the current master. This
happens by deleting the contents of a special configuration file which is used
by the workers to store the current Redis master (the content of that file is
the hostname:port of the currently active Redis master). By doing that, it is
ensured that no operations are done to any Redis server anymore, because the
AMQP workers check this files mtime and reads its contents in case that the
file changed, before every Redis operation. When the file has been emptied, the
RCCs respond to the "invalidate" message of the RCS. When all RCCs have
responded, the RCS knows for sure that it is save to switch the Redis master
now. It sends a "reconfigure" message with the new Redis master hostname:port
to the RCCs, which then write that value into the redis master configuration
file.

=== Prerequisites

* one redis-configuration-server process ("RCS", on one server), one redis-configuration-client process ("RCC") on every worker server
* the RCS knows about all possible RCCs using a configured list
* the RCS and RCCs exchange messages via a "system queue"

=== Flow of actions

* on startup, an RCC can determine the current redis-master without the help of the RCS by checking that either only one redis is available (as master) or by checking that redis master and slave are available
* when the RCS finds the redis-master to be down, it will retry a couple of times before starting a reconfiguration round
* the RCS sends all RCCs a "ping" message to check if every client is there and able to to answer
* the RCCs acknowledge via a "pong" message
* the RCS waits for *all* RCCs to reply via pong
* the RCS tells all RCCs to stop using the redis-master by sending an "invalidate" message
* the RCCs acknowledge via an "invalidated" message
* the RCS waits for *all* RCCs to acknowledge the invalidation
* the RCS promotes the former redis-slave to become the new redis-master (by sending SLAVEOF no one)
* the RCS sends a "reconfigure" message containing the new redis-master to every RCC
* the RCCs write the new redis-master to their redis master file

=== Configuration

See Beetle::Configuration for setting redis configuration server and client options.

Please note:
Beetle::Configuration#redis_server must be a file path (not a redis host:port string) to use the redis failover.
The RCS and RCCs store the current redis master in that file, and the handlers read from it.

== How to use it

This example uses two worker servers, identified by rcc-1 and rcc-2.

=== On one server

Start the Redis Configuration Server:

  beetle configuration_server start -- --redis-servers redis-1:6379,redis-2:6379 --client-ids rcc-1,rcc-2

Get help for starting/stopping the server:

  beetle configuration_server -h

Get help for server options:

  beetle configuration_server start -- -h

=== On every worker server

Start the Redis Configuration Client:

On first worker server:

  beetle configuration_client start -- --client-id rcc-1

On second worker server:

  beetle configuration_client start -- --client-id rcc-2

Get help for starting/stopping the client:

  beetle configuration_client -h

Get help for client options:

  beetle configuration_client start -- -h
