= Release Notes


== Version 3.0.0.rc1
* provide client method to setup queues and queue policies.
  Setting up queue policies on demand in publisher and subscriber is OK
  for a small number of queues, publishers and subscribers. But the HTTP
  API of RabbitMQ doesn't scale all that well, so that a large number
  of HTPP calls to set up queue policies can in fact crash a server.

== Version 2.3.2
* config server: fixed a race condition when accessing server state.
  HTTP requests run in threads separate from the server dispatcher
  thread and thus can cause race conditions/crashes when accessing
  server state. Solved this by adding a closure evaluator to the
  dispatcher.

== Version 2.3.1
* updated amqp and amq-protocol requirements in ruby client.
* fixed that a change in consul endpoint was not properly handled by
  the beetle configuration client.

== Version 2.3.0
* redis failover: support multiple redis failover instances. This has
  required a change in the redis master file format. The master file
  content is now either the old format (host:port) for systems using a
  single redis failover system or a mapping from system names to
  host:port combinations. For example,
  "system1/master1:6379\nsystem2/master" specifies to systems with
  their corresponding redis masters. Beetle client uses the configured
  system name to tind the master it should use.
* support lazy queues: setting :lazy_quques_enabled on the beetle
  cofiguration will enable queue_mode: "lazy" for all queues of
  declared on the beetle client.
* improved calculation of channel close an connection disconnect
  timeouts for beetle publisher to avoid warnings in RabbitMQ logs.
* use SecureRandom.uuid instead of UUID4R::uuid(4) if UUID4R cannot
  be loaded.

== Version 2.2.4
* redis failover: prevent starting a new master switch while one is running

== Version 2.2.3
* redis failover: server logs errors when redis oparations fail

== Version 2.2.2

* Reset redis configuration server state when master becomes available during
  pinging or invalidating.  Unlike the former ruby implementation, the go code
  continues checking redis availability during pinging or invalidating. However,
  the code did not reset state properly, leading the UI to display 'switch in
  progress' when in fact there wasn't.

== Version 2.2.1
* Subscriber exits with meaningful error log on possible authentication failures.

== Version 2.2.0

* Support specifying a whitelist of retriable exceptions when registering a
  message handler. Exceptions which are not on the list will be regarded as
  irrecoverable failures.

== Version 2.1.2

* Fixed that redis key GC would never complete when a key scheduled
  for GC was deleted by a consumer before the collector could retrieve
  its expiry date.
* Fixed tha redis key GC would crash on malformed keys.
* Added method to collect keys specified in a file.


== Version 2.1.1

* Support redis failover with less than 100% acknowlegment from failover clients.

== Version 2.1.0

* Support exponential backoff when delaying messages using 'max_delay: int' option.

== Version 2.0.2

* fixed incorrect computation of responsiveness threshold in
  configuration server

== Version 2.0.1

* fix for beetle command not geting stuck when connecting to
  configuration server
* configuration server displays last seen times in a human readable format

== Version 2.0.0

* beetle command has been rewritten in Go
* garbage collecting redis keys now uses the redis SCAN command

== Version 1.0.4

* use amqp protocol version 0.9 by default for publishers

== Version 1.0.3

* fixed that publisher did not allow specifying message properties

== Version 1.0.2

* relax hiredis requirements to >= 0.4.5

== Version 1.0.1

* don't try to connect on publisher shutdown

== Version 1.0.0

* introduced semantic versioning
* upgraded gems used for devloping beetle
* upgraded amqp gem to version 1.6.0 and amq-protocol to 2.0.1
* relaxed requirements on redis and hiredis versions
* support setting prefetch count for subscriber

== Version 0.4.12

* Don't log warnings when publishing redundantly and only
  one server has been configured

== Version 0.4.11

* Automatically close open publisher sockets at program exit

== Version 0.4.10

* Publisher handles nil and symbols as values in headers correctly

== Version 0.4.9

* Allow redis_configuration_client to run in the foreground (useful
  for docker)

== Version 0.4.8

* unseen clients need to be an array

== Version 0.4.7

* list clients which have never sent a ping in the failover server UI

== Version 0.4.6

* Publish activesupport notifications to support performance measurements

== Version 0.4.5

* Starting mutliple redis failover clients is now prohibited by
  default. This behavior can be overriden using
  "beetle configuration_client start -- --multiple"

== Version 0.4.4

* added command to show beetle version: "beetle --version"
* configuration server tracks ids of unknown clients
* configuration clients now sends heartbeats
* configuration server tracks last seen times of clients, based on heartbeat

== Version 0.4.3

* fixed a race condition which could lead to duplicate message processing
* fixed eventmachine shutdown sequence problem, which led to ACKs
  occasionally being lost due to writing to a closed socket, which in
  turn caused messages to be processed twice
* stop_listening now always triggers the subscribe shutdown sequence
  via a eventmachine timer callback, if the eventmachine reactor is running

== Version 0.4.2

* Fail hard on missing master file
* Set message timestamp header

== Version 0.4.1

* Require newer bunny version (0.7.10) to fix publishing of messages larger than frame_max

== Version 0.4.0

* Added optional dead lettering feature to mimic RabbitMQ 2.x requeueing behaviour on RabbitMQ 3.x

== Version 0.3.14

* switched message id generation to use v4 uuids

== Version 0.3.0

* redis master file contents now correctly reflects the state of the running configuration server
* allow accelerating master switch via POST to redis configuration server
* embedded http server into the redis configuration server (port 8080)
* fixed a problem with redis shutdown command
* upgraded to redis 2.2.2
* upgraded to amqp gem version 0.8 line
* use hiredis as the redis backend, which overcomes lack of proper time-outs in the "generic" redis-rb
  gem for Ruby 1.9
* use fully qualified hostnames to identify redis configuration clients

== Version 0.2.9.8

* since version 2.0, RabbitMQ supports Basic.reject(:requeue => true). we use it now too,
  because it enhances performance of message processors. this means of course, you can
  only use beetle gem versions >= 0.2.9.8 if your rabbitmq brokers are at least version 2.0.
* publishing timeout defaults to 0 to avoid extreme message loss in some cases


== Version 0.2.9.7

* use new bunny_ext gem and allow specification of global publishing timeouts
* registering a message now automatically registers the corresponding exchange
* don't try to bind queues for an exchange hich has no queue
* ruby 1.9.2 compatibility fixes

== Version 0.2.9

* Beetle::Client now raises an exception when it fails to publish a message to at least 1 RabbitMQ server
* Subscribers are now stopped cleanly to avoid 'closed abruptly' messages in the RabbitMQ server log

== Version 0.2.6

* Set dependency on ActiveSupport to 2.3.x since it ain't compatible to version 3.x yet
* Publishers catch a wider range (all?) of possible exceptions when publishing messages
* Redis Configuration Servers detect and warn when unknown Redis Configuration Clients connect

== Version 0.2.5

Added missing files to gem and rdoc

== Version 0.2.4

Log and send a system notification when pong message from unknown client received.

== Version 0.2.2

Patch release which upgrades to redis-rb 2.0.4. This enables us to drop our redis monkey
patch which enabled connection timeouts for earlier redis versions. Note that earlier
Beetle versions are not compatible with redis 2.0.4.

== Version 0.2.1

Improved error message when no rabbitmq broker is available.

== Version 0.2

This version adds support for automatic redis deduplication store failover (see separate
file REDIS_AUTO_FAILOVER.rdoc).

=== User visible changes

* it's possible to register auto deleted queues and exchanges
* Beetle::Client#configure returns self in order to simplify client setup
* it's possible to trace specific messages (see Beetle::Client#trace)
* default message handler timeout is 10 minutes now
* system wide configuration values can be specified via a yml formatted configuration
  file (Beetle::Configuration#config_file)
* the config value redis_server specifies either a single server or a file path (used
  by the automatic redis failover logic)

=== Fugs Bixed

* handle active_support seconds notation for handler timeouts correctly
* error handler was erroneously called for expired messages
* subscribers would block when some non beetle process posts an undecodable message

=== Gem Dependency Changes

* redis needs to be at least version 2.0.3
* we make use of the SystemTimer gem for ruby 1.8.7

== Version 0.1

Initial Release
